Hide in this video we are going to talk about Didi's scan clustering algorithm.
It stands for density based spatial clustering of applications with noise D-B ass.
C a n f is a data clustering algorithm such as Kamins clustering and it is density based.
So given a set of points in some space it groups to gather points that are closely packed together.
It is a very very common clustering algorithm and usually it outperforms Kamins clustering because we
don't have to know each other wants that how many clusters we would like to find and it is a bit faster
than Kamins clustering.
So there are given points in a two dimensional plane and if we try to find every single points that
are separated by a distance no more than a given Absalom's threshold.
This is the so-called threshold distance what are the same clusters.
We can hope from a given note to another by hoping no more than this absolute and distance parameter
these points are in the same cluster.
OK let's see a concrete illustration.
We have six data points and we pick one item at random in order to be able to start our algorithm.
We have a radius basically this absolute distance value.
And as you can see that we had these points within the range of these Absalom's threshold.
So it means that we are able to hope to this point and it's going to be in the same cluster as this
one.
In this case this point is within the epsilon distance so we are able to hope to this point.
OK.
So at this point again is in the same cluster as this point and this point we are able to talk to this
point but we have already considered this point and we are able to hope to this point because it is
within the Absolom stands.
So we are able to visit this point and there are no more always at that point.
We can always eat within this absolute on the range so we can come to the conclusion that these four
dots are in the same cluster.
Let's choose another data point at random that we haven't visited so far for example that one and we
can come to the conclusion that.
OK let's consider Dorte.
Within this absolute range and for example we are able to consider this point.
OK we hope to that point and we come to the conclusion that there are no.
And with that it points in this cluster and any Anyways we have visited all the dots in the dataset.
So that's determination of our algorithm.
So we have managed to find too close to hers in that given dataset without specifying the K parameter
as we had to do with K means clustering of course there are some advantages as well as some disadvantages
for the skin as well.
So we can find it nonlinearly separable clusters arbitrarily shape clusters.
It is a huge advantage for D-B scan for Kamin So we have to specify the number of clusters we want to
find here.
We do not need to do so we don't have to specify that K perimeter.
We don't have to use the elbow method in order to approximate the number of Klosters we want to find.
It is very robust to outliers and the result doesn't depend on the starting conditions.
Of course we are some additional paramita is the single APS-C long distance threshold Plus the minimum
number of neighbors.
Very important that it has a very very fast implementation with though and Logan so linear it may crumbing
time and we like and prefer algorithms built in the arrhythmic running time quite fast.
What about the disadvantages and the second is not entirely deterministic border points that are reachable
for more than one cluster can be part of either cluster depending on the order the data is aerosolized.
It relies heavily on a distance measure this Absolom radius.
And in this case we use Euclidean distance or Euclidean measure in higher dimensions.
It's very hard to find a good value for this absolute value.
It is the so-called curse of dimensionality.
Even the data and the scale are not well understood using a meaningful distance threshold Epsilon can
be very difficult.
So again we have some advantages and some disadvantages.
But despite the disadvantages for the scan the an algorithm usually preferred over k means clustering.
Thanks for watching.